>> Woodruff: UKRAINE'S PRESIDENT
AND OPPOSITION LEADERS SIGNED A
DEAL TODAY AIMED AT HALTING THE
BLOODY UPHEAVAL THAT'S GRIPPED
THEIR NATION.
THE QUESTION NOW: WILL THE LULL
IN THE VIOLENCE LAST?
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD TONIGHT, A STORY
ABOUT LIFE IN PRISON, AND IN
ISOLATION, AT NEW YORK CITY'S
RIKERS ISLAND, WHERE TEEN
INMATES ARE REGULARLY HELD IN
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT.
>> THERE'S SO MANY PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN IN THAT CELL AND
SCREAMED ON THAT SAME GATE, IT
SMELLS LIKE A BUNCH OF BREATH
AND DROOL.
I CAN NOT MAKE THIS UP.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: UKRAINE PULLED BACK
FROM THE BRINK, JUST A BIT,
TODAY.
THE PRO-RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
REACHED AGREEMENT WITH PRO-
WESTERN OPPOSITION LEADERS TO
LIMIT HIS POWER AND SPEED UP
ELECTIONS.
PROTESTERS ARE SUPPOSED TO
DISARM AND WITHDRAW, BUT IT'S
FAR FROM CLEAR THEY WILL, AFTER
SCORES WERE KILLED AND HUNDREDS
WOUNDED THIS WEEK.
JAMES MATES OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS FILETHISD
REPORT.
>> INDEPENDENT SQUARE IN KIEV
FOR ONCE AT A STAND STILL.
THE ONLY SIGNS THAT CHANTING
INCREASED IS THE COFFINS OF
YESTERDAY'S DEAD HOISTING UP
ABOVE THE CROWD.
SO MANY IS MAKING IT EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT FOR THOSE WHO LIVE TO
MAKE IT ANYTHING LESS THAN TOTAL
VICTORY.
THE DEAL THAT WAS SIGNED TODAY
BY A BATTLE PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH
OPPOSITION LEADERS AND TWO
EUROPEAN FOREIGN MINISTERS IS
LESS THAN TOTAL VICTORY.
IT'S A COMPROMISE THAT WILL SEE
A NEW CONSTITUTION AND FRESH
ELECTIONS LATER THIS YEAR.
THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF GERMANY
AND POLAND SHUTTLED TO THE SITE
FOR ALMOST 24 HOURS.
OVERHEARD WARNING THE HARD LINE
PROTESTERS THERE WILL BE
TERRIBLE CONSEQUENCES IF THIS
DIDN'T END.
WARNING FROM A MAN WHO HIMSELF
HAD FLED MARSHALL LAW IN POLAND
IN THE EARLY 80'S.
HE LATER CONFIRMED TO ME HE HAD
BEEN DEADLY SERIOUS.
YOU WERE OVERHEARD WARNING THEM
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF MARSHALL
LAW.
IS THAT A SERIOUS THREAT OR EVEN
A POSSIBILITY.
>> THE ARMY COULD HAVE BEEN SENT
IN.
TO MY KNOWLEDGE TROOPS WERE
BEING READY.
>> Reporter:  DO YOU REALIZE
THE BRINK WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
>> THE REACTIONISTS WITHIN
MINUTES OF THE AGREEMENT BEING
SIGNED.
>> Reporter:  INDEED THE
POLICE WERE EVERYWHERE HEADING
BACK TO BARRACKS.
THIS MORNING THEY HAD RINGED THE
COUNTRY'S PARLIAMENT.
AN HOUR OR SO LATER THAT WAS NOT
A SIGN.
AND THE ONLY POLICE NEAR
INDEPENDENT SQUARE TODAY WERE A
GROUP OF 40 WHO DESERTED THEIR
POSTS IN THE WESTERN CITY AND
TRAVELED HERE TO JOIN THE
PROTESTS.
LITTLE WONDER PERHAPS THAT SOME
PROTEST LEADERS HAVE NO TIME FOR
COMPROMISE AMONG THE PRESIDENT
BOTH AS TO OFFICE ANON TD RIAL.
>> THEY GO AWAY FROM UKRAINE.
THERE IS NOT A PRESIDENT HERE.
>> Reporter:  THE SENTIMENTS
YOU HEAR IN OVER CORNERHE T
SQUARE. ABOUT TO
RETURN TO THEIR HOMES LEAVING
BEHIND THEM THE SHRINES TO THEIR
DEAD.
THERE IS A DEAL.
THE DEAL IN MY TIME BRING THIS
CRISES TO AN END BUT THAT IS NOT
A CERTAINTY.
>> Woodruff: LATER IN THDAY,E
UKRAINE'S PARLIAMENT VOTED FOR
THE RELEASE OF FORMER PRIME
MINISTER YULIA TYMOSHENKO FROM
PRISON.
SHE'S A MAJOR RIVAL OF PRESIDENT
YANUKOVYCH.
IN WASHINGTON, WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS WELCOMED THE TURN OF
AFFAIRS AND SAID PRESIDENT OMABA
AND RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN DISCUSSED THE SITUATION BY
PHONE.
WE'LL RETURN TO UKRAINE, RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: IN MOSCOW, EIGHT
RUSSIANS WERE CONVICTED TODAY OF
RIOTING AT A 2012 PROTEST
AGAINST PRESIDENT PUTIN.
OPPONENTS CALLED IT A SHOW
TRIAL, AND OUTSIDE THE
COURTHOUSE, POLICE WADED INTO A
CROWD THAT HAD GATHERED IN
SUPPORT OF THE PROTESTERS.
MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE WERE
ARRESTED AND CARRIED OFF TO
WAITING BUSES.
THE JUDGE POSTPONED SENTENCING
FOR THE EIGHT DEFENDANTS UNTIL
MOND, AFAYTER THE OLYMPIC GAMES
CONCLUDE IN SOCHI, RUSSIA.
>> Woodruff: AS FOR THE
COMPETITION AT THE OLYMPICS, A
SPOILER ALERT, TUNE OUT FOR A
MOMENT, IF YOU DON'T WANT TO
KNOW THE RESULTS JUST YET.
IN MEN'S HOCKEY, CANADA BEAT THE
U.S., ONE-NOTHING, AND PLAYS
SWEDEN ON SUNDAY, FOR THE GOLD
MEDAL.
CANADIAN MEN ALSO WON GOLD IN
THE CURLING COMPETITION.
AND 18-YEAR OLD AMERICAN MIKAELA
SHIFFRIN BECAME THE YOUNGEST-
EVER GOLD-MEDALLIST IN OLYMPIC
SLALOM SKIING.
IN SOMALIA, THE PRESIDENTIAL
PALACE CAME UNDER ATTACK TODAY
BY ISLAMIST MILITANTS LINKED TO
AL-QAEDA.
A CAR BOMB EXPLODED AT THE
COMPOUND IN MOGADISHU, AND AL-
SHABAAB GUNMEN THEN OPENED FIRE
ON THE GUARDS.
WHEN IT WAS OVER, THE SITE WAS
STREWN WITH WRECKAGE.
BUT THE SECURITY MINISTER SAID
THE PRESIDENT WAS UNHARMED, AND
THE MILITANTS WERE DEAD.
>> ( translated ): THE ATTACK
WAS CARRIED OUT BY NINE MEN
EQUIPPED WITH MACHINE GUNS.
SEVEN OF THE NINE MEN WERE SHOT
DEAD BY THE SECURITY FORCES
AFTER A BRIEF FACE TO FACE FIGHT
AND THE OTHER TWO WERE DRIVING
THE VEHICLES WHICH EXPLODED.
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS THE LATEST
IN A SERIES OF RECENT ATTACKS BY
AL-SHABAB.
THE GROUP HAD BEEN OUSTED FROM
MOGADISHU IN 2011.
A FEDERAL JUDGE HAS RULED THE
NEW YORK CITY POLICE
DEPARTMENT'S SURVEILLANCE OF
MUSLIMS IN NEW JERSEY WAS LEGAL.
THE N.Y.P.D. WAS ACCUSED OF
SPYING ON MOSQUES, RESTAURANTS
AND SCHOOLS IN THE STATE SINCE
2002.
THE JUDGE RULED THE OPERATION
WAS A LEGAL EFFORT TO PREVENT
TERRORISM AND DID NOT VIOLATE
CIVIL RIGHTS.
ARIZONA COULD BECOME THE FIRST
STATE TO LET BUSINESSES REFUSE
SERVICE TO GAYS ON RELIGIOUS
GROUNDS.
STATE LAWMAKERS APPROVED IT LAST
NIGHT.
SUPPORTERS CITED THE EXAMPLE OF
WEDDING PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO
DECLINE TO WORK AT GAY
CEREMONIES.
GAY RIGHTS ADVOCATES WARNED THE
BILL AMOUNTS TO A LICENSE TO
DISCRIMINATE.
GOVERNOR JAN BREWER HAS NOT
INDICATED WHETHER SHE WILL SIGN
IT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HELD A PRIVATE
MEETING WITH THE DALAI LAMA
TODAY, OVER STRONG OBJECTIONS
FROM CHINA.
BEIJING HAS ACCUSED THE EXILED
TIBETAN SPIRITUAL LEADER OF
INCITING VIOLENCE IN HIS QUEST
FOR AN INDEPENDENT TIBET, A
CHARGE HE'S LONG DENIED.
TODAY, THE CHINESE DENOUNCED HIS
WHITE HOUSE VISIT.
>> ( translated ): THE DALAI
LAMA IS A POLITICAL EXILE WHO
HAS LONG USED THE CLOAK OF
RELIGION TO ENGAGE IN ANTI-
CHINA, SEPARATIST ACTIVITIES.
THE MEETING IS A GROSS
INTERFERENCE IN CHINA'S INTERNAL
AFFAIRS AND A SERIOUS VIOLATION
RELATIONS.
IT WILL ALSO SERIOUSLY DAMAGE
CHINA-U.S. RELATIONS.
>> Woodruff: THE MEETING WAS
CLOSED TO THE PRESS AND THE
DALAI LAMA LEFT LATER WITHOUT
SPEAKING TO REPORTERS.
THE BANKRUPT CITY OF DETROIT
FILED ITS PLAN TODAY ON HOW TO
RESTRUCTURE ITS $18 BILLION OF
DEBT.
IT CALLS FOR:
THE PLAN IS SUBJECT TO APPROVAL
BY A FEDERAL BANKRUPTCY JUDGE.
THE NATION'S RAILROADS WILL
ADOPT VOLUNTARY STANDARDS FOR
HAULING CRUDE OIL, AFTER A
SERIES OF DEADLY ACCIDENTS.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS THE
INDUSTRY HAS AGREED ON SLOWER
SPEEDS FOR OIL TRAINS IN MAJOR
CITIES AND INCREASED
INSPECTIONS, AMONG OTHER THINGS.
THE NUMBER OF TANKER CARS
CARRYING CRUDE HAS RISEN 40-FOLD
SINCE 2008.
MORTGAGE GIANT FANNIE MAE
REPORTS IT'S READY TO FINISH
PAYING BACK ITS ENTIRE FEDERAL
BAILOUT.
THE COMPANY WILL SEND A DIVIDEND
OF $7.2 BILLION TO THE U.S.
TREASURY NEXT MONTH.
ADDED TO WHAT IT'S ALREADY PAID,
THAT WILL MORE THAN COVER THE
$116 BILLION IT RECEIVED IN
2008.
SMALLER SIBLING FREDDIE MAC HAS
ALSO FULLY REPAID ITS BAILOUT.
THE TWO ENCIAGES OWN OR
GUARANTEE HALF OF ALL U.S.
MORTGAGES.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
ALMOST 30 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,103.
THE NASDAQ FELL FOUR POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,263.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW LOST
THREE-TENTHS OF A PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ ROSE HALF A PERCENT.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
WHAT TODAY'S DEAL MEANS FOR THE
UPHEAVAL IN UKRAINE; TWO
GOVERNORS WEIGH IN ON WHETHER
STATES ARE AS DIVIDED AS
WASHINGTON IS; THE CONTROVERSY
OVER JAILING TEENS IN SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT; SHIELDS AND BROOKS
ON THE WEEK'S NEWS; PLUS, WHAT
THE WINTER OLYMPICS TELL US
ABOUT LIFE IN RUSSIA.
>> Woodruff: THE POTENTIAL
BREAKTHROUGH IN UKRAINE TODAY
WAS LAUDED BY LEADERS OF THE
OPPOSITION, BUT PROTESTORS ARE
STILL CALLING FOR THE PRESIDENT
TO STEP DOWN IMMEDIATELY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE.
>> Brown: AND JOINING US ONCE
AGAIN TO LOOK AT TODAY'S PEACE
DEAL IS ADRIAN KARATNYCKY, A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE ATLANTIC
COUNCIL.
WELCOME BACK.
SO DO WE KNOW FIRST WHAT FINALLY
FORCED THIS AGREEMENT?
>> I THINK A PANIC ON THE PART
OF MR. YANUKOVYCH THAT HE WAS
LOSING CONTROL.
AND I THINK SORT OF A SENSE THAT
HIS BACKING IS COLLAPSING.
YESTERDAY THE PARLIAMENT HAD MET
AND A CLEAR MAJORITY INCLUDING
DEFECTORS FROM HIS RULING PARTY
SIGNALED THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
BOTTOM HAD FALLEN OUT OF HIS
BASE OF SUPPORT WITHIN THE
UKRAINIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
THAT PART THAT SUPPORTED HIM.
SO I THINK HE WAS ALMOST FORCED
INTO THIS KIND OF A STEP.
>> Brown:  EARLIER IN THE
PROGRAM SOME OF THE KEY ELEMENTS
HERE, EARLIER ELECTIONS LIMIT ON
PRESIDENTIAL POWERS.
HOW DEFINITIVE ARE THESE, ARE
THESE STRICTURES AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, TODAY THE PARLIAMENT
HAD A VAST MAJORITY WITH A VETO
PROVED MAJORITY RETURNED TO THE
2004 CONSTITUTION, WHICH
BASICALLY GIVES THE PRESIDENT
THE RIGHT TO APPOINT THE FOREIGN
MINISTER AND THE DEFENSE
MINISTER.
FOR EXAMPLE THE MILITIA, HEAD OF
THE MILITIA AND POLICE IS
APPOINTED BY THE PARLIAMENT.
THE GOVERNMENT IS SHAPED IN
EFFECT BY A COALITION OF
POLITICAL PARTIES THAT SHAPE THE
MAJORITY, AND THEN DEAL AMONG
THEMSELVES FOR THE DISTRIBUTION
OF MANY OF THESE POSTS.
POLITICS WILL BE DRIFTING AWAY
FROM MR. YANUKOVYCH'S PERVOO
VIEW.
UNTIL A GOVERNMENT IS IN PLACE
THERE'S A LOT OF MISCHIEF AND A
LOT OF TROUBLE AND POTENTIALLY
THERE'S STILL POSSIBILITY OF
VIOLENCE.
FUNDAMENTALLY POWER IS DRIVING
FROM MR. YANUKOVYCH.
EVEN THOUGH THERE'S TALK ABOUT
AN ELECTION NO LATER THAN
DECEMBER, I BELIEVE
MR. YANUKOVYCH WILL BE GONE IN A
MATTER OF WEEKS, IF NOT A MATTER
OF DAYS.
>> Brown:  OF COURSE AS WE'VE
HEARD MANY OF THE DEMONSTRATORS
WANT HIM GONE IMMEDIATELY.
THERE'S STILL A LOT OF CONCERN
WHETHER THIS AGREEMENT WILL HOLD
FOR THEM OR ABIDE BY IT.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THEY WILL.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF ANGER
OBVIOUSLY AFTER THE TERRIBLE
EVENTS OF THE LAST FEW DAYS.
BUT A BILL WAS ALREADY TABLED
FOR MR. YANUKOVYCH'S
IMPEACHMENT.
AND GIVEN THE FACT THAT
MAJORITIES AND VETO PROOF
MAJORITIES HAVE EMERGED IN THE
PARLIAMENT AND THE ELITE
INCLUDING MANY OF
MR. YANUKOVYCH'S FORMER BACKERS
IS WORKING HAND IN GLOVE WITH
THE OPPOSITION, SUGGESTS THAT
THE SIGNAL'S BEING SENT THAT HIS
FUTURE IS NOT VERY SECURE, EVEN
THROUGH INSTITUTIONAL MEANS.
SO I THINK THERE WILL BE, YOU
KNOW, ONCE A NEW PROSECUTOR
GENERAL IS APPOINTED, ARE AGAIN
NOT ONE THAT THE PRESIDENT, THEE
PARLIAMENT APPROVES.
ALL THESE KINDS OF CHANGES IS
GOING TO PUT MR. YANUKOVYCH IN
PERIL.
THERE WILL BE NORMAL FUNCTION OF
INSTITUTIONS.
MEANING ONCE THERE'S A
GOVERNMENT, ONCE THERE'S A
NORMAL PRIME MINISTER AND A
PROSECUTOR GENERAL THEY WILL
CONDUCT INVESTIGATORS.
LOCALS CAN ALSO CONDUCT
INVESTIGATIONS FOR OTHERS WHO
HAVE DIED IN THE REGIONS AND TRY
TO TRACE BACK WHERE THE ORDERS
WERE GIVEN.
WHICH I THINK PUTS
MR. YANUKOVYCH AS THE ULTIMATE
PERSON IN CHARGE OF THE POWER
STRUCTURES AND THE POLICE
MINISTRIES AND THE MILITIA
MINISTRIES PUTS HIM IN PERIL
UNDER THESE INVESTIGATIONS.
SO I THINK HE WILL FEEL VERY
UNCOMFORTABLE.
TODAY HE LEFT.
HIS PLANE TOOK OFF FOR EASTERN
UKRAINE WHERE A CONGRESS THAT IS
TRYING TO STIR UP SOME DEGREE OF
FEDERALISM IS GOING TO BE
MEETING TOMORROW AND I BELIEVE
HE'S HEADING TO RUSSIA THE NEXT
DAY.
SO I THINK HE'S EITHER
BARGAINING FOR HIS FUTURE OR
LOOKING FOR SOME ABILITY TO
FIGHT BACK WITH A FEW CARDS IN
HIS HANDS.
>> Brown:  I WANT TO ALSO ASK
YOU ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF THE
POTENTIAL RELEASE OF THE FORMER
PRIME MINISTER YULIA TYMOCHENKO.
WHERE DOES THIS PLAY INTO ALL OF
THIS.
>> THAT WAS ANOTHER SIGN.
THAT WAS ANOTHER VETO PROOF
AUTHORITY.
IT CAN BE DRAGGED OUT FOR 15
DAYS.
IF THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T SIGN
BILL IT GOES BACK FOR A REVOTE
IN THE PARLIAMENT AND IF THE 310
BACK IT THAT LAW IS CHANGED AND
SHE'S OBLIGATED THEN, THE COURTS
WILL BE EMPOWERED TO RELEASE HER
AND OBLIGATED TO RELEASE HER
BECAUSE THE CHARGES UNDER WHICH
SHE WAS SENTENCED HAVE BEEN
DECRIMINALIZED.
ONCE SHE ENTERS INTO THE FRAY, I
THINK THEY'LL HAVE A POPULIST
VOICE AND I THINK IT WILL BE A
LITTLE BIT DESTABILIZING.
BUT I THINK THERE'S KIND OF A
MATURITY THAT IS PRESENT THERE.
A FIRMNESS, THE CHANCE USED TO
BE [INDISCERNIBLE] WHICH MEANS
CON BE GONE, EXCON SINCE HE
SERVED PRISON AS A YOUNG MAN.
THE NEW CHANCE IS DEATH TO THE
PRISONER.
SO THERE IS AL
PENALTY, EVEN THOUGH UKRAINE NO
LONGER HAS THE DEATH PENALTY.
BUT THERE'S RAGE OUT THERE IN
THE PUBLIC.
AND I THINK HE IS AWARE OF THAT.
IT'S BEEN SAID THAT SOME OF HIS
VALUABLE ARE BEING REMOVED FROM
HIS LAVISH RESIDENCE NORTH OF
KIEV WHICH HAS OVER 10,000
SQUARE, 100,000 SQUARE FEET AND
THESE LAVISH PONDS AND LAKES IN
WHICH OVER $100 MILLION HAS
SUNK.
VALUEABLES HAVE BEEN REMOVED
FROM HIS OFFICES IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL ADMINISTRATION.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW IF HE'S COMING
BACK.
>> Reporter:  ALL RIGHT,
ADRIAN KARATNYCKY OF THE
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE NATION'S
GOVERNORS HAVE GATHERED IN
WASHINGTON THIS WEEK FOR THEIR
WINTER MEETING.
AND WITH ACTION IN THE NATION'S
CAPITAL STYMIED BY PARTISAN
GRIDLOCK, MANY ARE LOOKING TO
THE STATES FOR SOLUTIONS TO THE
COUNTRY'S CHALLENGES.
FOR A SAMPLE OF WHAT'S HAPPENING
WE ARE JOINED BY TWO GOVERNORS,
TENNESSEE REPUBLICAN BILL HASLAM
AND ILLINOIS DEMOCRAT PAT QUINN.
GOVERNORS WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
PEOPLE THINK WITH ALL THE
POLARIZATION IN WASHINGTON, THE
STAY THINGS MUST BE A LOT LESS
POLARIZED.
I WAS READING A STORY IN "THE
WASHINGTON POST" SUGGESTS THAT
REALLY WHAT'S IN THE STATES IS
WHAT HAPPENED HERE IN
WASHINGTON.
GOVERNOR IN RED STATES GO IN ONE
DIRECTION GOVERNOR IN BLUE
STATES GO IN ANOTHER.
>> WHEN HE BECAME GOVERNOR FIVE
YEARS AGO THERE WAS A PRAGMATIC
APPROACH OF GOVERNORS, WHATEVER
THE PARTY TO SOLVE PROBLEMS
WHETHER IT'S BUILDING ROADS OR
DOING EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION.
THOSE ARE FUNDAMENTAL THINGS
THAT EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS.
I SURE HOPE THAT KEEPS GOING,
DON'T YOU THINK BILL.
>> I THINK WHAT GOVERNORS HAVE
IN COMMON IS WE'RE FORCED TO
SOLVE PROBLEM.
GOVERNORS HAVE TO BALANCE THEIR
BUDGETS EVERY YEAR SO THEY HAVE
TO MAKE SOME HARD DECISIONS.
WE HAVE TO PROVIDE REAL EVERY
DAY SERVICES TO PEOPLE WITH
MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES OR RUNNING
PRISONS OR BILLING ROADS.
WE LIVE IN A MUCH MORE PRACTICAL
WORLD THAT WASHINGTON DOES.
>> Woodruff:  LET'S TALK TO
SOME AREAS THEY EITHER WORK
TOGETHER OR NOT.
FOR EXAMPLE PRESIDENT OBAMA
URGING THE GOVERNORS TOERT WORK
AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL OR THE
STATE LEVEL TO RAISE THE MINIMUM
WAGE.
I KNOW GOVERNOR QUINN, THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT'S IMPORTANT TO
YOU TO GET IT UP.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT ISSUE AND
GOVERNOR HASLAM, HOW DO YOU SEE
THAT.
>> I'M READY TO GO.
WE HAVE A MINIMUM WAGE RIGHT NOW
OF $8.25 WHICH IS HIGHER THAN
THE FEDERAL BY $1.
AND WE WANT TO GET IT OVER $10.
I WAS WITH THE PRESIDENT THIS
MORNING AND I THINK HE LOOKS
FORWARD WORKING WITH STATES
AROUND THE COUNTRY TO GET THIS
DONE.
EVEN IF CONGRESS DOESN'T ACT
BECAUSE THERE'S A PRINCIPLE AS
OVAL AS THE BIBLE.
IF YOU WORK 40 HOURS A WEEK.
IF YOU'RE A MOM OR DAD RAISING
KIDS, YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE TO LIVE
IN POVERTY.
I THINK THIS IS A VALUE ISSUE.
I THINK SOME OF THE REPUBLICAN
GOVERNORS NEED TO TAKE ANOTHER
LOOK AT THIS ISSUE BECAUSE WE
SHOULD RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE.
IT'S A FUNDAMENTAL ISSUE FOR
EVERY DAY PEOPLE.
>> IF YOU LOOK THE CONGRESSIONAL
BUDGET OFFICE SAYS IF YOU DO
THAT YOU'RE GOING TO LOSE
500,000 JOBS.
YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO LOOK AT THE
COSTS OF AN ACTION LIKE THAT.
WILL THIS MAKE A DRAMATIC
DIFFERENCE IN INCOME INEQUITY
ISSUE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT?
I THINK IT WILL MAKE SOME BUT I
THINK THERE'S A LOT OF OTHER
ISSUE THAT WILL MAKE MORE
DIFFERENCE AND I THINK THE
PRESIDENT'S FOCUS ON EDUCATION,
I THINK LONG TERM, WILL MAKE
MORE DIFFERENCES.
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE SEEING OUT OF
A LOT GOVERNORS.
YOU HAVE TO ADDRESS INCOME EQUAL
IS ADDRESS SPECULATION.
>> WE INVEST IN EARLY CHILDHOOD
EDUCATION, MAKING SURE OUR
COMMUNITY COLLEGES ARE UP TO
GETTING OUR WORK TRAINING GOING.
BUT WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THE
MINIMUM WAGE, THIS IS A5
IT'S AS OLD, I THINK,
APPROPRIATE FRANCIS POPE FRANCIS
TALKED ABOUT IT.
THEY'RE WORKING HARD JOBS AND I
REALLY FEEL THAT THIS IS AN
ISSUE THAT'S GOING TO BE IN OUR
COUNTRY ALL THROUGH THIS YEAR.
AND OUR PRESIDENT'GOINS G TO
MAKE SURE EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS
IT.
>> Woodruff:  DO YOU SEE IT
HAVING A CHANCE IN YOUR STATE.
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S A BIG
MOVEMENT.
IF YOU LOOK AGAIN, I'M NOT
CERTAIN THAT THOSE ARE THE
FAMILIES THAT THE PRESIDENT'S
TALKING ABOUT ADDRESSING.
I DO THINK THERE'S A LOT,
THERE'S AN ISSUE TO ADDRESS.
INCOME INEQUITY IS A FAIR ISSUE,
IT'S A RIGHT ONE, I'M JUST NOT
SURE.
>> Woodruff:  YOU WERE ONE OF
THE FOLKS IN TENNESSEE WHO WAS
ARGUING VERY MUCH AGAINST THE
UNITED AUTO WORKERS HAVING A
RIGHT TO ORGANIZE.
THAT VOTE DID NOT SUCCEED.
DOES THIS REALLY SAY THAT
ORGANIZED LABOR JUST IS NOT
GOING TO BE ANYWHERE IN THE
SOUTH DESPITE THE LOWER WAGES.
>> NO, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
ORGANIZED LABOR HAS BEEN THERE.
I THINK THE WORKERS ACTUALLY AT
THE END OF THE DAY GOT TO VOTE
ON THAT.
IT'S A VALUABLE PROPOSITION
THERE FOR THEMMOR NOT.
VOLKSWAGON IS PROVIDING GREAT
JOBS.
WE PUT TOGETHER AND SENT A
PACKAGE FOR THEM AND THEY'RE
LOOKING AT EXPANDING AND THEY'RE
SAYING THEY WANT TO KEEP THEIR
COSTS DOWN SO IT'S AN IMPORTANT
PIECE.
>> I THINK THAT WAS JUST CLEAN
ROTTEN.
THAT WAS WRONG FOR THE GOVERNOR
TO INTERFERE WITH THE UNION
ELECTION.
WE HAVE FORD, CHRYSLER AND
MITSUBISHI WHICH IS ORGANIZED
WITH THE UNITED AUTO WORKERS.
ALL THREE OF THOSE COMPANIES,
THEY'VE GROWN ENORMOUSLY.
MITSUBISHI HAS A NEW PRODUCT
LINE.
BUT FOR A GOVERNOR TO INTERFERE
WITH UNION ELECTION IS JUST
PLAIN WRONG.
THEY DON'T THINK YOU WERE DOING
THE RIGHT THING.
>> THE STATE IS INTERESTING.
THE OTHER THING IS VOLKSWAGON
SAID TO US WHAT I COSTS TO BUILD
A CAR AND NUMBER TWO WE WANT TO
ATTRACT A NETWORK CLOSER.
NEITHER OF THOSE WILL BE EASIER.
SUPPLIERS EVERYWHERE SAID IF IT
COMES FLAT OUT WE'LL BE A LOT
LESS INTERESTED.
>> OUR STATE, I HAVE FORD AND I
HAVE CHRYSLER AND I HAVE
MITSUBISHI AND ALL OF THEM AND
THEIR SUPPLIERS WANT TO HAVE THE
WORKERS ORGANIZED.
THEY LIKE TO WORK WITH PEOPLE
WHO GET A FAIR WAGE AND DECENT
BENEFITS.
I THINK THIS IS A VALUE
DIFFERENCE AGAIN, WHETHER IT'S
THE MINIMUM WAGE OR THE RIGHT TO
ORGANIZE AN UNION.
THESE ARE FUNDAMENTAL AMERICAN
ISSUES.
>> SO FUNDAMENTAL WE LET THE
WORKERS VOTE AND THEY VOTED --
>> IF YOU INTERFERE WITH THE
ELECTION.
>> THE PRESIDENT TRIED TO
INTERFERE AS WELL.
>> Woodruff:  WE KNOW THERE'S
A LOT OF DISPUTE IN THE COUNTRY
ABOUT THE NEW HEALTHCARE LAW.
WHEN IT COMES TO EXPANDING
MEDICAID WHICH WAS OFFERED TO
THE STATES IS SOMETHING THAT
ILLINOIS IS INTERESTED IN,
SOMETHING TENNESSEE YOU'RE STILL
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT YOU'RE
GOING TO DO.
>> WE THINK MORE PEOPLE BEING
COVERED IS THE RIGHT IDEA BUT WE
THINK EXPANDING THE SYSTEM THAT
WAS DESIGNED YEARS AGO AND I
DON'T THINK ANYBODY ARGUES WORKS
THE RIGHT WAY.
THE HISTORY OF MANAGEMENT CARE,
WE'RE ONE OF THE VERY FIRST
STATES 20 PLUS YEARS AGO TO
INSTITUTE MANAGED CARE.
MY PREDECESSOR WHO IS A DEMOCRAT
THOUGHT IT WAS TOO BIG OF A
PIECE OF THE BUDGET HAD TO CUT
THE ROLES.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE A
SYSTEM WITH BETTER OUTCOMES FOR
ANYONE.
>> OVER A QUARTER MILLION PEOPLE
TODAY IN ILLINOIS HAVE HEALTH
COVERAGE THAT DIDN'T HAVE IT A
YEAR AGO.
AND WE TOOK THE OPPORTUNITY TO
HIT FEDERAL RESOURCES TO EXPAND
OUR MEDICAID PROGRAM.
OUR HEALTH COVERAGE FOR HARD
WORKING PEOPLE.
THESE ARE FOLK THAT WORK AND DO
IMPORTANT JOBS.
THEY OUGHT TO HAVE HEALTH
COVERAGE.
I ACTUALLY WANT TO CROSS OUR
STATE FROM THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
TO LAKE MICHIGAN TO HAVE A
DECENT HEALTHCARE FOR EVERYONE.
FOR TENNESSEE INDIANA,
WISCONSIN, TURNED DOWN AN
OPPORTUNITY TO GIVE PEOPLE MORE
HEALTHCARE IS JUST PLAIN WRONG.
IT'S SOMETHING YOU GOT TO KEEP
AN EYE ON.
>> THE STATES HAVE TO BE FOCUSED
ON OUTCOMES AND WE WANT A
MEDICAID PROGRAM THAT DOES FOCUS
ON OUTCOMES.
WE WANT A MEDICAID PROGRAM THAT
DOESN'T SQUEEZE EVERYTHING OUT
OF OUST WHETHER IT BE HIGHER
EDUCATION, FORCING HIGHER
TUITION OR MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES OR ANYTHING ELSE.
>> Woodruff:  IN THE FINAL
MINUTE, LET ME ASK YOU TOO WHAT
ARE SOME ISSUES THAT YOU THINK
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS CAN
AGREE ON OUT THERE IN THE
COUNTRY.
WE'RE HEARING ABOUT SOME THINGS
WHERE YOU SEE DIFFERENTLY.
>> WE HAD SOME EDUCATION ISSUES.
THEY'VE LED THE WAY.
>> Woodruff:  EARLY CHILDHOOD.
>> I THINK BASICALLY K12.
WE'VE WORKED VERY CLOSELY ON
IMPROVING OUTCOMES FOR STUDENTS.
SO THERE ARE SOME REAL WAYS
WE'RE WORKING TOGETHER.
>> I THINK EARLY CHILDHOOD
EDUCATION IS A KEY PART OF IT.
OUR STATE IS INVOLVED IN THAT WE
WANT TO WORK WITH EVERY GOVERNOR
REPUBLICAN OR DEMOCRAT MAKING
SURE THAT CHILDREN FROM BIRTH TO
FIVE GET A GREAT HEALTHY START
AN EDUCATED START.
THAT'S SOMETHING EVERYBODY
SHOULD WORK ON AND WE SHOULD PUT
OUR FOOT TO THE WHEEL.
>> TENNESSEE WAS THE FASTEST
IMPROVING STATE WHEN IT CAME TO
EDUCATION RESULTS.
WHAT WE ARE PUTTING TOGETHER IS
COMING TOGETHER PUT PEOPLE
TOGETHER FOR THE WORK FORCE.
>> MAYBE YOU CAN RAISE THE
MINIMUM WAGE, WHAT DO YOU THINK.
>> WE HAVE JOBS THAT'S NOT AN
ISSUE.
>> Woodruff:  IN BALANCE ARE
YOU TOO TOGETHER.
>> THIS POLICY DIFFERENCE.
WE GET ALONG PERSONALLY YOU HAVE
TO BE CIVIL.
BUT PHILOSOPHY WAYS WE HAVE TO
MAKE SURE WE INVEST IN PEOPLE
AND GO FORWARD.
>> I THINK THE GREAT THING IS
THERE ARE LABORATORIES OF
DEMOCRACY AND YOU CAN SEE THE
STATES THAT HAVE DONE THINGS TO
CITIZENS TO TRACK JOBS AND MAKE
IT A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE CAN
LIVE.
THAT'S THE THING ABOUT
STATEMENTS EVERYONE CAN TAKE ONE
APPROACH, TENNESSEE GOING TO
TAKE ANOTHER.
LET'S SEE HOW THAT PLACE OUT.
>> Woodruff:  GOVERNOR HASLAM
AND GOVERNOR QUINN, WE THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW WE TURN TO AN
ISSUE MANY STATE AND LOCAL PENAL
SYSTEMS ARE INCREASINGLY
CONCERNED ABOUT: THE IMPACT OF
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT ON TEENAGE
INMATES.
THIS WEEK, NEW YORK STATE
ANNOUNCED IT WILL BAN THE
PRACTICE IN ITS PRISON SYSTEM.
A NEW REPORT PUBLISHED BY NEW
YORK CITY'S DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND MENTAL HYGIENE
FOUND TEENAGE INMATES HELD IN
ISOLATION AT RIKERS ISLAND
PRISON WERE MORE LIKELY TO HARM
THEMSELVES THAN OTHER INMATES.
THIS WEEK'S CHANGES DO NOT APPLY
TO RIKER'S ISLAND, WHICH IS RUN
BY THE CITY, NOT THE STATE.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT DAFFODIL
ALTON OF THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING FILED
THIS REPORT ON THE SITUATION
THERE.
>> Reporter:  EVERY DAY ACROSS
THE COUNTRY JAIL IS BUILT FOR
ADULTS.
NEW YORK STATE WANTS TO TURN
TEENAGERS PROSECUTED AS AN ADULT
NO MATTER WHAT THE CHARGE.
THAT MEANS PEOPLE ARRESTED IN
NEW YORK CITY END UP AT RIKERS
ISLAND.
SEPARATED FROM MANHATTAN BY A
LONG BRIDGE OVER THE EAST RIVER,
RIKERS HOLDS 12,000 INMATES
INCLUDING HUNDREDS OF TEENS.
ALMOST ALL OF THEM ARE STILL
AWAITING TRIAL.
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN CONVICTED.
OFFICIALS AT RIERK  -- RIKERS
TOLD NEW YORK BOARD IS THE TEEN
AGESSERS ARE IN SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT.
>> THEY ARE IN SOLITARY
IT IS MORE THAN TEN TIMES THE
CONFINEMENT.
NORMAL UTILIZATION IN SOLITARY
IT IS MORE THAN TEN TIMES THE
CONFINEMENT IN THE UNITED
NORMAL UTILIZATION IN SOLITARY
STATES.
CONFINEMENT IN THE UNITED
IT IS OFF THE CURVE.
STATES.
>> Reporter:  DR. ROBERT COHEN
IT IS OFF THE CURVE.
IS A FORMER MEDICAL DIRECTOR AT
>> Reporter:  DR. ROBERT COHEN
RIKERS ISLAND.
IS A FORMER MEDICAL DIRECTOR AT
HE NOW SITS ON THE NEW YORK CITY
RIKERS ISLAND.
BOARD OF CORRECTIONS.
HE NOW SITS ON THE NEW YORK CITY
>> THEY NEED TO EXERCISE AND RUN
BOARD OF CORRECTIONS.
AROUND.
>> THEY NEED TO EXERCISE AND RUN
WE CAN'T LOCK THEM UP ALL DAY
AROUND.
LONG AND EXPECT THEM TO BEHAVE
WE CAN'T LOCK THEM UP ALL DAY
LIKE ANYTHING APPROACHING A
LONG AND EXPECT THEM TO BEHAVE
MODEL CITIZEN OR TO BE
LIKE ANYTHING APPROACHING A
REPENITENT.
MODEL CITIZEN OR TO BE
IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE THAT
REPENITENT.
RESPONSE BEING FACILITATED AND
IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE THAT
ENHANCED BY BEING TREATED BUYING
RESPONSE BEING FACILITATED AND
A LOG.
ENHANCED BY BEING TREATED BUYING
>> Reporter:  LAST YEAR THE
A LOG.
BOARD OF CORRECTION ISSUED TWO
>> Reporter:  LAST YEAR THE
SCATHING REPORT, RIKERS USE OF
BOARD OF CORRECTION ISSUED TWO
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT AS
SCATHING REPORT, RIKERS USE OF
PUNISHMENT FOR TEENS AND THE
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT AS
MENTALLY ILL.
PUNISHMENT FOR TEENS AND THE
THEY ARE LOCKED IN SIX FOOT BY
MENTALLY ILL.
EIGHT FOO CELLS FOR 23 HOURS A
THEY ARE LOCKED IN SIX FOOT BY
DAY.
EIGHT FOO CELLS FOR 23 HOURS A
THEY WAKE UP AT 6:00 A.M. YOU
DAY.
CAN SIGN UP TO EXERCISE FOR AN
THEY WAKE UP AT 6:00 A.M. YOU
HOUR ALONE IN THIS
CAN SIGN UP TO EXERCISE FOR AN
ULT SUICIDES AMONG DETAINED
HOUR ALONE IN THIS
JUVENILES HAPPEN WHILE THEY'RE
ULT SUICIDES AMONG DETAINED
IN ISOLATION.
JUVENILES HAPPEN WHILE THEY'RE
THE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS WHICH
IN ISOLATION.
THEY HAVE ALLOWED THE MEDIA TO
THE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS WHICH
COVER.
THEY HAVE ALLOWED THE MEDIA TO
BUT DURING THE PAST YEAR, THE
COVER.
SENATE FOR INVESTIGATIVE
BUT DURING THE PAST YEAR, THE
REPORTING MADE DOZENS OF
SENATE FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REQUESTS TO MAKE THE ADOLESCENT
REPORTING MADE DOZENS OF
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT UNITS.
REQUESTS TO MAKE THE ADOLESCENT
OFFICIALS WOULD NOT LET US SEE
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT UNITS.
THOSE UNITS AND DEFINED TO SPEAK
OFFICIALS WOULD NOT LET US SEE
WITH US ON CAMERA.
THOSE UNITS AND DEFINED TO SPEAK
>> THEY'RE HIDING.
WITH US ON CAMERA.
THEY DON'T WANT PEOPLE TO SEE
>> THEY'RE HIDING.
WHAT'S REALLY GOING ON IN RIKERS
THEY DON'T WANT PEOPLE TO SEE
ISLAND.
WHAT'S REALLY GOING ON IN RIKERS
>> Reporter:  NEW YORK COUNCIL
ISLAND.
COUNCILMEMBER DANIEL DRUM IS ONE
>> Reporter:  NEW YORK COUNCIL
OF THE FEW OUTSIDERS HAVE SEEN
COUNCILMEMBER DANIEL DRUM IS ONE
WHAT THE CONDITIONS ARE LIKE FOR
OF THE FEW OUTSIDERS HAVE SEEN
TEENS IN SOLITARY.
WHAT THE CONDITIONS ARE LIKE FOR
>> WE WENT INTO THE CELL, WE SAW
TEENS IN SOLITARY.
A RUSTED BED.
>> WE WENT INTO THE CELL, WE SAW
WE SAW A MATTRESS, FOAM RUBBER
A RUSTED BED.
MATTRESS THIS THICK WITH MOLD ON
WE SAW A MATTRESS, FOAM RUBBER
IT.
MATTRESS THIS THICK WITH MOLD ON
THERE WAS GRAFFITI AND WRITING
IT.
ALL OVER THE WALL.
THERE WAS GRAFFITI AND WRITING
WASN'T PAINTED.
ALL OVER THE WALL.
THERE WAS DIRT AROUND THE EDGES
WASN'T PAINTED.
OF THE FLOOR OF THE CELL.
THERE WAS DIRT AROUND THE EDGES
THERE WAS A SMALL WINDOW TO THE
OF THE FLOOR OF THE CELL.
OUTSIDE ABOUT THIS BIG.
THERE WAS A SMALL WINDOW TO THE
AND THERE WAS A SMALL WINDOW ON
OUTSIDE ABOUT THIS BIG.
THE DOOR AS WELL.
AND THERE WAS A SMALL WINDOW ON
AND THAT IS THE CONDITION THAT
THE DOOR AS WELL.
PEOPLE WHO ARE IN SOLITARY
AND THAT IS THE CONDITION THAT
CONFINEMENT, YOUNG PEOPLE,
PEOPLE WHO ARE IN SOLITARY
ADOLESCENTS HAVE TO LIVE IN 23
CONFINEMENT, YOUNG PEOPLE,
HOURS A DAY ON RIKERS ISLAND.
ADOLESCENTS HAVE TO LIVE IN 23
THAT TO ME IS TORTURE.
HOURS A DAY ON RIKERS ISLAND.
>> Reporter:  EXPERIENCED THAT
THAT TO ME IS TORTURE.
FIRSTHAND.
>> Reporter:  EXPERIENCED THAT
NOW IN THE YOUTH COUNCIL IN
FIRSTHAND.
BROOKLYN, HE WAS A TEEN WHEN HE
NOW IN THE YOUTH COUNCIL IN
WAS IN AND OUT OF RIKERS ON
BROOKLYN, HE WAS A TEEN WHEN HE
ASSAULT AND ROBBERY CHARGES.
WAS IN AND OUT OF RIKERS ON
WITHOUT BEING CONVICTED HE SAYS
ASSAULT AND ROBBERY CHARGES.
HE SPENT A TOTAL OF 300 DAYS IN
WITHOUT BEING CONVICTED HE SAYS
SOLITARY.
HE SPENT A TOTAL OF 300 DAYS IN
THE LONGEST STRETCH WAS FOUR
SOLITARY.
MONTHS.
THE LONGEST STRETCH WAS FOUR
>> YOUR EYES BEGIN TO PLAY
MONTHS.
TRICKS ON YOU.
>> YOUR EYES BEGIN TO PLAY
YOU START SEEING BLACK DOTS AND
TRICKS ON YOU.
YOU FOCUS ON THEM.
YOU START SEEING BLACK DOTS AND
IT'S KIND OF CRAZY.
YOU FOCUS ON THEM.
IT LOOKS CRAZY.
IT'S KIND OF CRAZY.
I WAS SITTING AND DEMONSTRATE
IT LOOKS CRAZY.
HOW IT USED TO LOOK.
I WAS SITTING AND DEMONSTRATE
IT LOOKS CRAZY.
HOW IT USED TO LOOK.
YOU SEE THE BLACK DOTS AND
IT LOOKS CRAZY.
YOU'RE FOCUSING ON THE BLACK
YOU SEE THE BLACK DOTS AND
DOTS AND YOUR EYES ARE FOLLOWING
YOU'RE FOCUSING ON THE BLACK
THEM AROUND IN YOUR CELL ALL
DOTS AND YOUR EYES ARE FOLLOWING
OVER.
THEM AROUND IN YOUR CELL ALL
YOU JUST LOOK, YOU KNOW, AND YOU
OVER.
TRY TO ESCAPE SEEING THE BLACK
YOU JUST LOOK, YOU KNOW, AND YOU
DOTS BUT YOU CAN'T.
TRY TO ESCAPE SEEING THE BLACK
YOU THINK THAT BLACK DOTS IS IT.
DOTS BUT YOU CAN'T.
THERE'S NO BLACK DOTS THERE, YOU
YOU THINK THAT BLACK DOTS IS IT.
KNOW, IT'S CRAZY.
THERE'S NO BLACK DOTS THERE, YOU
>> Reporter:  I WAS IN THERE
KNOW, IT'S CRAZY.
FOR MONTHS AT A TIME.
>> Reporter:  I WAS IN THERE
HE WAS DESPERATE TO TALK TO
FOR MONTHS AT A TIME.
SOMEONE, ANYONE.
HE WAS DESPERATE TO TALK TO
>> YOU TALK TO YOURSELF.
SOMEONE, ANYONE.
SPEAKING OUTLOUD, YOU JUST START
>> YOU TALK TO YOURSELF.
PACING BACK AND FORTH.
IT'S CRAZY.
WHEN I WAS IN THE STUDIO, IT WAS
REAL, BEING IN THE CELL [BLEEP]
THERE'S NO VISIT.
I CAN'T WAIT UNTIL TOMORROW.
LIKE THAT.
IT'S CRAZY.
>> Reporter:  HE ALSO
REMEMBERS HOW INMATES YELLED TO
EACH OTHER.
>> IT'S A LITTLE CRACK ON THE
SIDE OF THE DOOR.
YOU GET CLOSE TO IT AND YOU
SCREAM, YOU KNOW.
YOU SCREAM LET ME OUT, LET ME
OUT.
SO MANY PEOPLE HAVEEEN B IN THAT
CELL WHEN THEY SCREAMED ON THE
GATE.
IT SMELLS LIKE A BUNCH OF BREATH
AND DROOL.
I CANNOT MAKE THIS UP.
>> Reporter:  UNITED NATIONS
CONSIDERED SOLITARY CONFINEMENT
TO BE CRUEL AND INHUMANE.
THE INVESTIGATOR ON TORTURE IS
JUAN MENDEZ.
>> IN LEGAL TERM THE CONVENTION
ON THE RIGHTS OF A CHILD
SPECIFICALLY SAYS THAT SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT FOR YOUNG OFFENDERS
IS PROHIBITED.
IT'S PROHIBITED AS A MATTER OF
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
AND IT'S NOT CAPRICIOUS.
IT'S BECAUSE THE MEDICAL AND THE
PSYCHIATRIC LITERATURE
DEMONSTRATES THAT YOUNG
OFFENDERS SUFFER ISOLATION AND
VERY DIFFERENT IN MUCH WORSE
FORMS THAN ADULTS.
>> Reporter:  THE U.N.
CLASSIFIES SOLITARY AS A FORM OF
TORTURE.
>> FOR JUVENILES IT SHOULD NEVER
BE USED.
FOR PEOPLE WITH MENTAL
DISABILITIES, FOR WOMEN WHO ARE
PREGNANT OR FEEDING CHILDREN.
AND EVEN FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
COMPLETELY HEALTHY, IT SHOULD
NOT BE EITHER PROLONGED OR
INDEFINITE.
>> THOSE WHO WORK IN JAIL SAY
SOLITARY IS A NECESSARY TOOL FOR
DEALING WITH AGGRESSIVE
ADOLESCENT POPULATION.
>> IF YOU WALK IN THE SHOES OF A
CORRECTION OFFICER INSIDE THE
CITY'S JAIL SYSTEM PASS JUDGMENT
ON US BECAUSE DO YOU KNOW WHAT,
IT'S A TOUGH JOB.
>> Reporter:  NORMAN,
PRESIDENT OF THE UNION FOR NEW
YORK CITY CORRECTION OFFICERS IS
THE CLOSEST WE GOT TO AN
OFFICIAL RESPONSE FROM INSIDE
RIKERS ISLAND.
>> YOU GO INTO THE BELLY OF THE
BEAST AND YOU HANDLE WHATEVER
COMES YOUR WAY BUT YOU HAVE BEEN
TO BE SMART ENOUGH TO ARTICULATE
TO THOSE YOUNG MEN IN THERE.
IT'S LIKE FLYING OFF THE WALL
AND THESE GUYS ARE GOING AT IT
AND THEY'RE GOING AND GOING AND
GOING AND GOING LIKE THE
ENERGIZER RABBIT, THEY JUST
DON'T STOP.
SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO USE FORCE.
AND WHEN YOU USE FORCE I
INSTRUCT MY OFFICERS USE
WHATEVER FORCE THAT'S NECESSARY
TO TERMINATE THAT THREAT.
>> Reporter:  FOR SEA BROOK,
THAT MEANS USING SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT FOR 16 YEAR OLDS
WHEN CORRECTION OFFICES SEE FIT.
>> WE FOUGHT VIGOROUSLY TO
ENSURE THAT THOSE THAT COMMITTED
FRACTIONS IN THE CITY'S JAIL
SYSTEM ARE SENTENCED TO PENAL
SEGREGATION.
>> Reporter:  THE JUDGE'S OWN
RULES SAY THAT TEENS WITH GET 90
DAYS OF WHAT OFFICIALS CALL
PUNITIVE SEGREGATION FOR
FIGHTING.
MORE THAN A WEEK MINOR
INFRACTIONS LIKE HORSE PLAY.
BUT LITTLE IS KNOWN ABOUT WHAT
EXACTLY GOES ON HERE BECAUSE THE
DENT OF CORRECTION IS NOT
REQUIRED TO PUBLICLY REPORT MUCH
BEYOND HOW MANY TEENS ARE IN
SOLITARY AT ANY GIVEN TIME.
>> WE'VE HAD DIFFICULT TIME
TRYING TO FIND OUT EXACTLY
WHAT'S GOING ON IN RIKERS ISLAND
IN REGARD TO PUNITIVE
SEGREGATION.
>> Reporter:  NEXT MONTH,
INTRODUCING LEGISLATION CALLING
TO BE MORE TRANSPARENT ABOUT
SOLITARY.
>> WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR ARE
NUMBERS.
HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE THEY PUTTING
INTO THE MENTAL HEALTH UNITS.
HOW MANY ADOLESCENTS ARE GOING
INTO SOLITARY CONFINEMENT.
WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE.
WHAT ARE THE INFRACTIONS, WHAT
ARE THE AGE.
WE NEED TO UNVEIL THE SECRECY
AROUND SOLITARY SO THAT WE CAN
UNDERSTAND WHAT EXACTLY IS GOING
ON.
>> Reporter:  THE NEW YORK
CITY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
SAYS IT HAS ALREADY TAKEN STEPS
TO MINIMIZE ITS USE OF SOLITARY
CONFINE MANY.
SIMILAR TO THOSE NOW PROPOSED BY
THE STATE.
RIKERS HAS NOT ALLOWED US INSIDE
TO SHOW WHAT IT'S LIKE FOR TEENS
IN SOLITARY.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN HEAR MORE
ON THIS STORY ON "REVEAL," A NEW
PROGRAM FROM THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING AND
P.R.X, THE PUBLIC MEDIA
EXCHANGE.
"REVEAL" AIRS ON PUBLIC RADIO
STATIONS BEGINNING MARCH 1.
AND TO THE ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS
AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME GENTLEMEN.
>> GOOD EVENING.
>> Woodruff:  OUR LEAD TODAY
AND FOR THE LAST FEW DAYS HAS
BEEN YEW CANE REALLY JUST
EXPLOITED IN THE MAYHEM
YESTERDAY BUT MARK, TODAY, THERE
SEEMS TO BE A TRUCE.
THE PRESIDENT HAS SIGNED AN
AGREEMENT WITH THE OPPOSITION.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT SURREAL.
WE'RE WATCHING THE OLYMPICS TAKE
PLACE IN RUSSIA BUT NEXT DOOR IN
UKRAINE THAT IS WHAT'S
HAPPENING.
HOW DO YOU SEE WHAT'S GOING ON
THERE.
>> LIKE EVER ELSE JUDY, JUST
BEEN FOLLOWING IT AND HOPING FOR
THE BEST.
THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS
CERTAINLY ARE ENCOURAGING.
IT SEEMS TO BE FITTING A PATTERN
WHERE THE UNITED STATES, THERE'S
A GOVERNMENT THAT USES
REPRESSIVE POWER AGAINST ITS OWN
CITIZENS.
AND IT'S, IT SEEMS TO BE THE
PATTERN OF AN OLIGARCH
GOVERNMENT THAT IS OUT OF TOUCH
WITH ITS OWN PEOPLE.
AND WE HOPE THAT THIS IS MOVING
IN THE DIRECTION.
I MEAN IT CHOSE THE LIMITS WHAT
WE, THE AMERICAN INTEREST BUT
THERE'S NOT AN AMERICAN
SOLUTION.
>> WE'VE SEEN THESE THINGS AS
MARK SAID ALL AROUND THE WORLD.
THERE'S COLOR REVOLUTIONS,
PEOPLE OUT IN THE STREETS IN
VARIOUS SQUARES.
I THINK OUR FIRST INSTINCT A
COUPLE YEARS AGO WAS ALWAYS ROOT
FOR THE PEOPLE IN THE STREETS.
I THINK WE STILL ROOT FOR THEM
BUT WE SHOULD BE SOAKERED FOR
THE EFFECTS ESPECIALLY EGYPT AND
SYRIAN PLACES LIKE THAT.
YOU DO HAVE THE POTENTIAL OF
THESE ROUNDS OF DESTABILIZATION.
IN UKRAINE CERTAINLY THE LOWS,
THE POLITICAL LOWS, THE DANGERS
ARE GREATER THAN THE HIGHS ARE
HIGH.
THE LOWS ARE LOW AND THE HIGHS
ARE HIGHS.
THERE SHOULD BE A NEED FOR
CAUTION.
AND I THINK THAT WAS DENIED  --
DENIED BY THE NATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
WE HAD AN AGREEMENT AND IT'S A
PRETTY GOOD AGREEMENT FOR THE
PROTESTERS.
IT'S A NEGOTIATION AND SETTLE.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A HALF A
LOW.
GIVEN THE HISTORY OF THESE
THINGS IN THE LAST COUPLE YEARS
HALF A LOW IS PRETTY GOOD.
WE HOPE THEY DO NOT TOP THE
GOVERNMENT.
THE CONSTITUTION IS PRESERVED.
WHEN THINGS ARE BAD AND THE LOWS
ARE LOWS AND HIGHS ARE HIGHS.
HALF A LOAF IS PRETTY GOOD.
>> Woodruff:  IS IT CLEAR
WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE FOR THE
WEST, FOR EUROPE AND THE U.S.
>> IT SEEMS TUSH IN THE PART OF
RUSSIA, THEY BROUGHT THEIR
INFLUENCE THERE.
THE OLD FASHION WAY WAS $15
BILLION TO THE ADMINISTRATION TO
BAIL IT OUT.
THIS IS A NEW COUNTRY ... SO I'M
NOT SURE JUDY.
IT'S BETWEEN EUROPE AND RUSSIA.
IT'S OBVIOUS AND REAL.
>> I COVERED THE UKRAINIAN
INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT WHEN THEY
WERE FIRST DECLARING A MOVE FOR
INDEPENDENCE.
IF YOU ASKED ME I THOUGHT
UKRAINE WOULD BE WAY AHEAD OF
RUSSIA.
IT SEEMED LIKE A MORE HUMANE
PLACE IN POLITICAL CULTURE
SENSE.
IT HASN'T TURNED OUT THAT.
PARTLY BECAUSE OF THE DIVISIONS
AND THEY DON'T KNOW HOW TO
DIVIDE, PARTLY THE CORRUPTION
HAS GOTTEN SO BAD.
IT'S A GRADUATE PROCESS OF
ROPING THEM INTO THE EUROPEAN
SYSTEM I THINK.
UKRAINE NATURALLY BELONGS IN
SORT OF THE OR BIT OF THE EU BUT
THAT'S DECADES LONG.
>> Woodruff:  LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT PARTLY INTERNATIONAL BUT
CERTAINLY HAVE VERY MUCH A
DOMESTIC COMPONENT, MARK, DAN
THAT IS A TRADE.
THE PRESIDENT'S BEEN PUSHING
SOMETHING CALLED THE
TRANSPACIFIC PARTNERSHIP IN AN
EFFORT TO GET CLOSER TO ASIA.
HE'S IN FAVOR OF IT BUT A LOT OF
DEMOCRATS AREN'T.
EXPLAIN WHY THE SPLIT AND WHERE
DO YOU SEE THISOIN GG.
>> EVERY PRESIDENT JUDY,
IRRESPECTIVE OF PARTY WANTS FAST
TRACK AUTHORITY TO NEGOTIATE
WITHOUT THE INTERFERENCE OF
CONGRESS.
EVERY CONGRESS WANTS TO HAVE ITS
ORDER IN AND BE A PART OF IT.
THERE'S A NATURAL TENSION THERE.
BUT WE'RE DEALING HERE WITH THE
SHADOW OF NAFTA.
IT'S 20 YEARS SINCE THE TRADE
AGREEMENT.
THERE WAS MUCH PROMISE IT WAS
GOING TO BE GREAT FOR EVERYBODY
INVOLVED.
IT'S GOING TO ELEVATE MEXICO TO
THE POINT WHERE THE IMMIGRATION
PROBLEM WOULD DISAPPEAR.
MEXICAN MIDDLE CLASS WOULD
FLOURISH AND WHAT WE'RE SEEING
HAS NOT BEEN REALLY, THERE'S
BEEN ECONOMIC GROWTH NO QUESTION
BIT.
BUT IT'S NOT BEEN BROADLY SHARED
PROSPERITY.
AND IT'S REACHED NOW TO THE
POINT WHERE DEMOCRATS HAVE GROWN
SKEPTICAL.
NOT SIMPLY THE HOLLOWED OUT
TOWNS OF OHIO AND SO MUCH OF THE
INDUSTRIAL BELT OF THIS COUNTRY.
BUT TO THE POINT WHERE THE MOST
SOPHISTICATED TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPED IN THIS COUNTRY.
IT'S INGENUITY, IT'S GENIUS AND
SENT OVERSEAS TO BE
MANUFACTURED.
NOT BECAUSE THERE'S BETTER
EDUCATION THERE BUT BECAUSE
THERE'S REPRESSION OF WORKERS
AND PRESSION OF WAGES.
SO IT'S CHEAPER.
AND THAT HAS CAUGHT UP, I THINK,
WITH THE FREE TRADE SIDE OF THE
ARGUMENT AND I THINK THERE'S A
GREAT SKEPTICISM NOT ONLY ON THE
PART OF DEMOCRATS BUT ON THE
PART OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff:  DOES THAT SAY
ANY KIND OF TRADE AGREEMENT IS A
PROBLEM.
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION ABOUT
THAT.
NAFTA, MY READING OF THE
EVIDENCE IS IT DIDN'T TURN OUT
TO BE THAT BIG A DEAL ONE WAY OR
THE OTHER.
IT WAS A WASH ECONOMICALLY AND
OTHER THINGS.
WE HAVE MUCH MORE THAN NAFTA.
SINCE WORLD WAR II WE'VE GOT
YEARS OF TRADE.
AND THE GRADE AGREEMENTS ARE
WITH EUROPE AND THEY'RE NOT
MIDDLE AGE COUNTRIES AND ACROSS
THE PACIFIC WITH ASIA.
THESE ARE TRADE AGREEMESNT WE
HAVE SIX OR SEVEN YEARS OF
PRETTY GUARANTEED GROWTH OUT OF
THESE AGREEMENTS.
THEY'VE DESTROYED GLOBAL PAWS
PARITY FOR THIS TIME.
I MENTIONED IN MY COLUMN TODAY
SINCE 1970 THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
IN THIS WORLD MAKING A DOLLAR A
DAY HAS DECLINED BY 80%.
THE GREATEST DECLINE IN GLOBAL
POVERTY IN HUMAN HISTORY.
AND WHY IS THAT?
BECAUSE OF GLOBAL TRADE.
EVERY PRESIDENT OF EVERY PARTY
HAS TRADITIONALLY BEEN A
PROPONENT OF TRADE OR THIS ONE
IS AND I THINK THERE'S A STRONG
EVIDENCE ITS GROWTH AGENDA.
AND SO I UNDERSTAND THE
POLITICAL FEARS ABOUT IT BUT I
DON'T THINK THERE'S MERIT.
I DO THINK WHEN THE
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS ARE
BUCKING THEIR OWN PRESIDENT,
THEY'RE DOING SOME HARM FOR
POLITICAL REASONS.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT DO YOU
THINK.
>> I DON'T, I MEAN I UNDERSTAND
VERY MUCH WHERE PELOSI AND
SENATOR REID ARE.
ON THIS BROADCAST IT'S CALLED
HIGH PRODUCTIVITY POVERTY.
YES, IT'S ECONOMIC GROWTH.
THE TRADE AGREEMENTS, JUDY AND
EUROPEAN EXCEPTION HAS
CONCENTRATED ON PROTECTION OF
ALL THE CORPORATE RIGHTS OF
COPYRIGHT, OF LICENSING.
BUT THERE WERE WORKERS RIGHTS.
YOU CAN'T WORK AT THE
OUTSOURCING OF PRODUCTION TO
ASIA IN SOUTHEAST ASIA AND NOT
SAY THEY'RE DOING IT TO THE
LOWEST UNIT COST OF WORK.
IF THEY'RE DOING IT NOT TO
INVEST THERE, THEY INVEST THERE
TO DO SO, NOT TO SELL BUT TO
BRING STUFF BACK HERE.
I JUST THINK THAT'S THE
SKEPTICISM AND IT'S LEGITIMATE.
>> WE'RE BEGINNING TO SEE
MANUFACTURING JOBS COMING BACK
FROM CHINA BECAUSE THEIR WAGES
ARE COMING UP.
WE'RE DOING OKAY BUT THE REASON
THE ECONOMY IS HALLOWED OUT NOT
BECAUSE OF GLOBALIZATION BUT
TECHNOLOGY.
EACH EMPLOYEE GOT THE
EQUIVALENT, THEY DIDN'T GET,
TH PAIEYD THE EQUIVALENT OF $347
MILLION PER EMPLOYEE.
THAT MEANS WE GOT COMPANIES
WHERE VERY FEW EMPLOYEES HAVE
VERY HIGH VALUE.
I DON'T THINK IT'S BECAUSE OF
GLOBALIZATION.
>> I JUST ADD ONE THING.
I THINK BROADLY WHEN YOU SAY THE
UKRAINE AS WELL.
BROADLY SHARED PROSPERITY IS NOT
ONLY A SOCIAL VALUE AND A SOCIAL
JUSTICE VALUE, IT'S A CIVIC
VALUE.
AND I THINK THAT IT'S REALLY
SOMETHING THAT IS OVERRIDING
IMPORTANCE TO US AND SHOULD BE
IN EVERY POLICY WE DEVELOP.
>> Woodruff:  IN A WAY, THIS
IS CONNECTED TO THE CONVERSATION
I HAD WITH THE GOVERNORS WHICH I
THINK THE TWO OF YOU HEARD.
GOVERNOR QUINN OF ILLINOIS
DEMOCRAT AND GOVERNOR HASLAM OF
TENNESSEE.
WE ENDED UP TALKING ABOUT THE
MINIMUM WAGE, THE UAW VOTE IN
GOVERNOR  HASLAM'S HOME STATE.
GOVERNORS ARE FINDING A WAY TO
WORK TOGETHER BUT MARK, WHAT
WE'RE HEARING IS THAT, YOU HEARD
THEM, THEY'RE DIVIDED ON SOME OF
THE SAME ISSUES.
>> ALL POLITIC IS LOCAL.
PAT QUINN'S RUNNING FOR
RE-ELECTION IN ILLINOIS AND HE
CAME ON AND DUKED IT OUT WITH
GOVERNOR HASLAM.
I THINK THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OF
POLITICAL STANDARD EVEN.
THE DIFFERENCES ARE REAL, DON'T
GET ME WRONG.
>> I THINK THE PROBLEM IS
RUNNING IN TENNESSEE.
HE BELIEVE IT SO GOOD FOR HIM.
JUST ON THE ISSUES, FIRST ON THE
MINIMUM WAGE BECAUSE WE JUST HAD
THIS BIG CEO REPORT COME OUT IN
SHINWAGTON.
IT'S A MIXED BAG WITH A LOT OF
POLICIES.
THERE ARE WINNERS AND LOSERS.
THE LOSERS, MANY MORE MILLIONS
OF PEOPLE SEE THE WAGE
INCREASES.
THE LOSERS WOULD BE SOME LOSS OF
JOBS POTENTIALLY IN THE BALLPARK
OF 500,000.
HOW DO YOU WEIGH THAT.
I WOULD SAY TWO THINGS.
WHEN YOU TAKE PEOPLE OUT OF THE
LABOR FORCE ESPECIALLY WHEN OUR
LABOR FOREIS SO DECIMATED YOU'RE
REALLY DOING LONG TERM HARM TO
THEM.
I WEIGH THAT VERY HEAVILY.
I'M A LITTLE SUBSEQUENT CULL O
-- SF KEPTICAL OF MINIMUM WAGE.
WE HAVE ANOTHER POLICY OF INCOME
TAX CREDIT THAT PROVIDE THE SAME
SORT OF BENEFITS TO LOW INCOME
WORKERS WITHOUT THE LABOR MARKET
EFFECTS.
WHY ARE WE NOT TALKING ABOUT
THAT INSTEAD OF THE MINIMUM
WAGE.
WE SEE THAT TRANSPARENTLY, THE
MINIMUM WAGE POLLS REALLY WELL
FOR THE DEMOCRATS.
TALKING ABOUT TAX CREDITS WHERE
YOU SEE REPUBLICAN BUY-IN IT'S
JUST NOT POLITICALLY USEFUL.
>> Woodruff:  IS IT FAIR.
25 SECONDS.
>> YOU CAN DO BOTH.
THE INCOME TAX CREDIT, THE CHILD
OF MILTON FRIEDMAN AND JERRY
FORD, IT WAS A GREAT IDEA IT
WORKED ENORMOUSLY.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME YOU HAVE TO
RAISE THE INCOME.
THAT'S WHY THE MINIMUM WAGE HAS
TO BE RAISED.
LET'S NOT PUT IT ALL ON AMERICAN
TAXPAYERS.
COSTCO ALREADY IS, GAP IS.
LET'S JOIN IN HAVING SOME
ECONOMIC JUSTICE TO OUR WORKERS.
>> Woodruff:  THE TWO OF YOU
BRING JUSTICE TO THIS BRING
EVERY FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, AS
THE WINTER OLYMPICS CLOSE OUT
THIS WEEKEND, WE CONCLUDE WITH A
BROADER LOOK AT THE HOST
COUNTRY.
AT IT'S PEOPLE AND THE CONTRAST
BETWEEN THE PAST COUPLE OF WEEKS
AND DAY-TO-DAY LIFE OF ORDINARY
RUSSIANS.
JEFF IS BACK WITH OUR
CONVERSATION WHICH HE RECORDED
EARLIER IN THE WEEK.
>> Brown:  GREGORY FEIFER
FIRST CAME TO HIS INTEREST IN
RUSSIA THROUGH A PERSONALLY
CONNECTION.
HIS MOTHER GREW UP THERE ARE IN
COMMUNISM.
HE WORKED THERE AS NPR AND OTHER
NEWS ORGANIZATIONS AND IS
WORKING WITH PEOPLE ALONG THE
WAY AND EVENTUALLY COVERED IN
THE NEW BOOK, RUSSIANS, THE
PEOPLE BEHIND THE POWER.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown:  THE STARTING POINT
IS THAT EVEN WHILE THE WORLD'S
SPOTLIGHT IS IN RUSSIA DURING
THE OLYMPICS, WE AMERICANS
REALLY DON'T KNOW IT OR
UNDERSTAND IT.
IS THAT YOUR FEELING.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE IDEA BEHIND THE BOOK WAS TO
TRY TO GET BEHIND AFTER TWO
DECADES AFTER SOVIETS SLAPS DO
AMERICANS FIND RUSSIAN BEHAVIOR
MYSTIFYING IN SOME WAY.
WE TEND TO EXPLAIN WHAT WE DON'T
KNOW ABOUT RUSSIA BY SAYING THAT
PERHAPS RUSSIANS HAVE A MYSTICAL
RUSSIAN SOUL THAT WE'VE HEARD
ABOUT AND IT'S DIFFERENT SO WE
CAN'T UNDERSTAND IT.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT'S TRUE.
MY APPROACH HAS BEEN TO LOOK AT
RUSSIAN'S DAILY BEHAVIOR, THE
FAMILY LIFE, WORK PATTERNS.
IN MY MANY TRAVELS ACROSS
RUSSIA, IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
RUSSIAN BEHAVIOR IS
UNDERSTANDABLE AND THERE ARE
PATTERNS BEHIND IT.
>> Brown:  SO LET'S LOOK AT
THAT THROUGH THE GUISE OF THE
OLYMPICS, RIGHT, BECAUSE WE'RE
SEEING THE OLYMPICS FROM THE
OPENING CEREMONIES TO THE WHOLE
STAGE.
HOW DOES THIS RUSSIA THAT YOU
SEE MANIFEST ITSELF.
>> WELL I THINK THE OLYMPICS ARE
A VERY TRADITIONAL RUSSIAN
EVENT.
I MEAN, THIS IS A COUNTRY THAT
HAS BUILT ST. PETERSBURG TO BE
THE EUROPEAN CITY ON A SWAMP,
PROFESSED IT WANTED TO SPREAD
COMMUNISM AROUND THE WORLD.
THE OLYMPICS IN A WAY ARE
ANOTHER GRANDIOSE PROJECT TO TRY
TO CATCH UP TO THE WEST.
BUT I THINK WHAT REALLY
CHARACTERIZES THESE GAMES TO ME
IS THEY SHOW HOW MUCH RUSSIA
ACTUALLY LAGS.
BECAUSE IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT'S
GOING ON IN RUSSIA, MOSCOW MAY
BE FULL OF LUXURY CARS AND FANCY
RESTAURANTS, THANKS TO THE
RICHES FROM RUSSIA'S VAST ENERGY
WEALTH.
BUT YOU DON'T HAVE TO GO TO
SIBERIA, YOU DRIVE 50 MILES OUT
OF MOSCOW AND SEE A COUNTRY SIDE
THAT'S LITERALLY DYING.
I VISITED MANY VILLAGES THERE
WHERE THERE WERE TWO, SOMETIMES
EVEN ONE ELDERLY PERSON LIVING
IN WHAT USED TO BE VILLAGES ON
TRACKS.
POVERTY, ALCOHOLISM, DISEASE IN
MANY WAYS RUSSIA'S HEADING
TOWARDS CRISES.
>> Brown:  TWO OF THE THINGS
YOU WRITE A LOT ABOUT AND AGAIN
I THINK WE'RE SEEING IT FROM
YOUR WRITINGS AND OTHERS, POWER
AND CORRUPTION.
TELL US WHAT YOU SEE.
AND AGAIN HOW DO THEY MANIFEST.
>> WE'VE HEARD A LOT ABOUT
CORRUPTION IN THE SOCHI OLYMPIC
GAMES, THE MOST EXPENSIVE GAMES
EVER, MORE THAN $50 BILLION.
$7 BILLION ARE REPORTED TO HAVE
GONE TO COMPANIES CONNECTED TO
THE ONE MAN, THIS MAN HAPPENS TO
HAVE BEEN PUTIN'S CHILDHOOD
FRIEND AND FORMER G.O. PARTNER.
WHAT HAPPENS AT THE TOP REFLECTS
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE REST OF
THE COUNTRY.
A FORMER CENTRAL BANKER SAID IN
2012, $50 BILLION WERE SENT
ILLEGALLY OUTSIDE OF RUSSIA.
BUT IT'S MORE THAN THAT.
I THINK WAY HAVE THIS IDEA THAT
PUTIN RULED ACCORDING TO A
SOCIAL CONTRACT ACCORDING TO
WHICH AS LONG AS LIVING
STANDARDS KEEP RISING, THE
KREMLIN IS MORE OR LESS FREE TO
BE AUTHORITARIAN AS IT LIKES.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S QUITE TRUE.
I THINK THE GLUE BINDING PUTIN'S
REGIME TO THE RUSSIAN PEOPLE IS
CORRUPTION, BECAUSE BRIBERY
INVOLVES EVERYBODY.
>> Brown:  THAT'S WHAT I WAS
GOING TO ASK YOU.
WHY IS IT ACCEPTED.
EXPLAIN THAT.
WHY WOULD CORRUPTION BE THE GLUE
IF THERE IS, AND I RECENTLY
SPOKE ABOUT PUSSY RIOTS, SOME OF
THE MEMBERS SHOWING UP IN SOCHI
AND WE'VE HAD REPORTS OF THEM
BEING ATTACKED.
BUT THE GENERAL POPULATION
SEEMS, AT LEAST FROM THE
OUTSIDE, TO ACCEPT THE SYSTEM.
>> SURE, BECAUSE THEY'RE PART OF
THE SYSTEM.
I WAS SAYING ABOUT HOW RUSSIA
HAS, RUSSIANS HAVE PRACTICAL
MOTIVES FOR ACTING THE WAY THEY
DO.
I THINK THIS GLUE-BINDING THAT'S
BEEN PUT TOGETHER AS I SAID IS
BRIBERY.
EVER HAS TO PAY A BRIBE.
IF YOU DRIVE A CAR, YOU WILL
CERTAINLY HAVE TO PAY A BRIBE
WHEN YOU'RE STOPPED BY A TRAFFIC
POLICEMAN WHICH HAPPENS ALMOST
EVERY DAY.
IF YOU'RE THE OWNER OF A CORNER
STORE, FOR EXAMPLE, YOU HAVE TO
WAY THE FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR,
THE HEALTH INSPECTOR, THE
BUILDING CODE INSPECTOR.
EVERYBODY PAYS BRIBES.
AND I THINK BRIBERY NOT ONLY
COERCES PEOPLE BECAUSE IT ENABLE
THE AUTHORITY TO PROSECUTE
EVERYBODY BUT IT ALSO CROPS
PEOPLE.
IF YOU'RE PAYING A BRIBE YOU GET
SOMETHING OUT OF IT.
IF YOU'RE THE CORNER STORE OWNER
AND YOU'RE PAYING THE POLICE TO
MAKE SURE NO HARM COMES TO YOUR
BUSINESS, YOU FEEL YOU'VE GOT
SOMETHING OVER THE COMPETITION A
COUPLE BLOCKS AWAY.
>> Brown:  HOW DOES THIS PLAY
OUT ON THE WORLD STAGE.
OF COURSE WE'RE WATCHING WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THE UKRAINE AND THE
RELATIONS HAVE HURT THE UNITED
STATES, A RESET THAT NEVER
SEEMED TO ACTUALLY HAPPEN.
>> RIGHT.
WELL WE SEE PUTIN AS THIS
CARICATURE OF AN AGING DICTATOR.
I THINK ONE OF THE REASONS FOR
HIS SUCCESS AND HE HAS BEEN
SUCCESSFUL, HE'S BEEN IN POWER
FOR 14 YEARS AND IT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE HE'S LEAVING ANY TIME SOON,
IS THAT HE'S VERY GOOD AT
CREATING IMAGES OF HIMSELF.
TO US, AS I SAID, HE LOOKS LIKE
THIS DICTATOR.
BUT TO RUSSIANS HE'S POPULAR TO
THE MAJORITY OF RUSSIANS.
MOST RUSSIANS ARE ENVIOUS, MANY
RUSSIANS ARE ENVIOUS OF THE WEST
AND PUTIN'S NATIONALISM PLAYS
INTO THAT.
>> Brown:  YOUR BOOK IS
RUSSIANS, PETE PULL BEHIND THE
POWER.
GREGORY FEIFER, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
UKRAINE PULLED BACK FROM THE
BRINK, JUST A BIT, AS IT'S
PRESIDENT AND OPPOSITION LEADERS
SIGNED A POLITICAL AGREEMENT.
BUT IT WAS UNCLEAR IF PROTESTERS
IN KIEV WOULD ACCEPT THE DEAL.
AND THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE IN
SOMALIA CAME UNDER ATTACK BY
ISLAMIST MILITANTS LINKED TO AL-
QAEDA.
POLICE KILLED NINE OF THE
ATTACKERS, AND THE PRESIDENT WAS
UNHURT.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE NOW, THE
FIRST-ROUND TALKS FOR A LONG-
TERM PLAN TO REGULATE IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM CONCLUDED THIS
WEEK.
FIND A  BIRD'S-EYE TOUR OF SEVEN
OF IRAN'S NUCLEAR FACILITIES,
AND FIND OUT HOW EACH LOCATION
WILL BE AFFECTED BY THE INTERIM
DEAL, ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
AND AN EDITORS NOTE:
IN OUR SERIES LATE LAST YEAR OF
PERSONAL STORIES ABOUT THE
EFFECTS OF THE NEW HEALTH CARE
LAW, WE PROFILED MARTHA
MONSSONA, A COLORADO WOMAN WHO
WAS DIAGNOSED WITH CANCER JUST
BEFORE HER HUSBAND LOST HIS JOB
AND THEIR HEALTH INSURANCE.
WE ARE SAD TO REPORT MARTHA LOST
HER BATTLE WITH CANCER AND
PASSED AWAY YESTERDAY.
HERE IS AN EXCERPT FROM HER
STORY.
>> THE PROBLEM, I THINK, IS A
LOT OF PEOPLE THINK IFHEY' TRE
HEALTHY, THEY'RE GOING TO STAY
HEALTHY FOREVER.
I HAD INSURANCE.
I THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO STAY
HEALTHY FOREVER.
>> Woodruff: MARTHA MONSSON WAS
59 YEARS OLD.
YOU CAN WATCH HER ENTIRE STORY
ON OUR WEBSITE,
newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND PUTIN HAD A
LOT OF STAKE THIS WEEK AS
UPHEAVAL UNFOLDED IN UKRAINE.
WE MAKE THAT CONNECTION AND WE
EXAMINE THE MINIMUM WAGE AND THE
KENTUCKY SENATE RACE.
YES ALL THAT LATER TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND LOOKS AT
HOW ONE GEORGIA WOMAN IS
STRUGGLING TO GET BY, AFTER
CONGRESS DID NOT APPROVE AN
EXTENSION OF EMERGENCY
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS IN
DECEMBER.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
WITH THE SUPREME COURT HEARING
ARGUMENTS OVER THE E.P.A.'S
RULES TO CURB GREENHOUSE GASES
FROM POWER PLANTS.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A NICE
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.